# Weekly Report 4 
1. What have I been up to this week? <br />
   - [x] A lot of things. I made the UI look great, and I actually got very invested in improving it because I noticed how much faster it was to check if things work if there is a convenient user interface. The best idea I had with the UI was to create "default" buttons that run JPS and Dijkstra on hardprogrammed maps with prechosen coordinates. This way to quickly check if I made any breaking changes, I could run `poetry run invoke test` and then `poetry run invoke start` and quickly judge if I made something wrong.
   - [x] I simplified the logic in UI to better separate it from the actual algorithm.
   - [x] I thought of using "slides", essentially a list that I could pass to the JPS and Dijkstra algorithms so that they would "modify it in place". After that, the UI would have a list of snapshots of the program and through the convenient UI it is possible now to see each step of execution.
   - [x] I created --print flag for cli.py before .gitignoring it. I use cli.py offline for seeing where the program breaks and for printing rotated maps with coordinate axes for test files
2. How has the program progressed? <br />
   - [x] It's progressed a lot, I think the UI would be acceptable even for the final return. Both algorithms now have visualization and both return the length of the path in a user-friendly way. The debug printouts are much sparser and there isn't any specific bugs I'm aware of. I think there's something wrong with JPS taking a very long time on large maps, but that's probably becuase I didn't implement it fully. After studying JPS papers, articles and blogs for a couple days and taking notes I based the program mostly on my notes, so there's probably some optimizations I haven't done yet. <br />
   - [x] I removed a lot of unnecessary code from JPS and added docstrings and changed variable names to be more understandable to the reader. I hope the reviewer will get a positive feeling from the interface, but regarding code readability I think there is still progress to be made. <br />
3. What did I learn this week / today? <br />
   - [x] I learnt that it's good to plan ahead (similar kind of lesson to last week's) but also in other areas, like UI - Services - Algorithm files kind of way. I understand better that to compare two algorithms, it's nice to have a similar kind of output for both. I learnt that GUI can be nice when it has sufficient shortcuts and doesn't require the user to repeat the same actions for basic usage. I found that writing tests for the simplest things, writing many of them and concurrently with the development of the code is super useful even very late in the development, because even changing variable names might lead to unexpected bugs. Writing a lot of tests also helps me understand the functioning of the program and the kind of changes that are taking place. Unfortunately writing tests is still a pretty lengthy process to me, and whenever functionality of the code changes, so do the tests and I have to double or triple the amount of work to adjust the tests. <br />
   - [x] I also found that it's nice to have flags (like debug, visual etc) because during development of algorithms, I often wanted to take a look at a particular aspect (like how does printing maps look) so making the code modular and flexible is a good practice too <br />
4. What was unclear or caused difficulties? Answer this section honestly, as you will receive help based on this section if needed.  <br />
   - [x] I think that there is surprisingly few instructions on what exactly can be improved and developed. I guess this week I got over the scary task of putting all the stuff together and actually got to write the code most of the time instead of struggling with `tkinter` or technical problems, so my time was filled, but apart from that the division of work across appears to be uneven. I don't know how much time I'll spend on the course in the next couple weeks, but it'll definitely be much less than this and the week before. No specific complaint apart from that<br />
4. What do I do next? <br />
   - [x] I need to read the feedback once it appears, I should maybe improve the look of docstrings, also look at the course materials and work on documents like implementation and testing documents. I also need to make sure that JPS works well and include more types of tests.<br /><br />

**Other considerations:** <br />
I spent around **15** hours this week working on the project. It still sounds like a lot of time to spend per week on the course, but at least it was productive and I'm happy to see good effects<br />
 
